To Whom it May Concern,

Please accept this letter and accompanying materials as an application for *Director of Enterprise Data Management – Information Technology Division* (#[301007](https://a127-jobs.nyc.gov/index_new.html?keyword=301007)) in the NYC Department of City Planning (DCP) where I believe a candidate with a career-full of data organization, data dissemination, data generation, and perhaps most importantly data *use* could build a rich, powerful data infrastructure, information lifecycle, and education/outreach plan -- a *program*, if you will -- that maximizes the efficacy, visibility, and lifespan of highly-valuable data and metadata at DCP agency-wide, and therefore the DCP's impact city-wide.

I am currently the "GIS Librarian" at [MIT's Lincoln Laboratory](https://www.ll.mit.edu//) - a federally-funded research and development center ([FFRDC](https://www.ll.mit.edu/about/ffrdcs.html)) outside of Boston, MA that specializes in researching and developing solutions to problems critical to national security. My objective at Lincoln early (2013-2014) was to apply order to a geospatial data environment that had sprawled out of control and to build an infrastructure out of it that met the needs of diverse data clients (researchers, contractors, support staff) throughout the agency's 8 technical divisions and 6 service departments. I did so - by building a data catalog; a battery of organization, mutation, and documentation procedures (some of which execute in supercomputing environments); a suite of APIs, data services, and other end points; a clean, easy primary web portal; and multiple ad hoc client applications and APIs tailored to per-project specs.

Since the establishment of these systems, my work at MITLL has been more devoted to integrating and bridging these solutions into specific projects throughout the lab - "service and outreach," one could call it (more often "collaboration") but with an emphasis on the educational and technical work required to, say, assist researchers with the integration of our data/methods/technologies into their own micro environments; to simply promote and illustrate the value of those resources; or to package Library data stores and methods in -- literally -- a box on a plane or the server room of a ship at sea (Lincoln is an interesting agency and a great place to work). In effect, to *make the data used where they should be*.

Prior to Lincoln I achieved tenure at Purdue University, where I was a "GIS Specialist" in the Libraries - again a position that should perhaps be qualified and explained to be understood. I will be brief! While I did teach (graduate-level courses in "Geoinformatics"); and while I did do some of the more classic service identified with library professionals (help researchers find, obtain, and use datasets); and while I did do some original research (in the area of data curation, notably); my primary work at Purdue was to collaborate with grant-funded research teams across campus to provide GIS and geospatial data expertise and support -- e.g. to build or direct the building of stable, interoperable, and reusable spatial infrastructure that facilitated the pursuit of the research itself but with an eye toward preservation and re-use of the data (and associated applications) down the line.

Lincoln, by the nature of its work, is highly insular and security-conscious. In fact I can only speak in so much detail of my work there (e.g. no show-and-tell). But its data problems are largely common: it, like many data-based agencies, needs "consolidation and restructuring of existing data functions," a "maintenance strategy," a "data stewardship program across the agency," and an "awareness and education program on data and tools for informed decision making." However, it is not ready in the way that DCP evidently is. To have [published, versioned, and documented open data](https://www1.nyc.gov/site/planning/data-maps/open-data.page) is an extremely good start. To see RESTful end points, metadata and data dictionaries, even just some good, open formats is all extremely attractive to someone hoping to soon be proselytizing for DCP data and capabilities; to be promoting or accelerate their use where it can do the most good for the city and its government; and to be executing DCP strategy and objective through the technology available in the modern landscape. To create a role at all for "Director of Enterprise Data Management" betrays a progressive outlook and perspective on the value not just of data but *healthy* data, *active* data, and, when possible, open data.

I am a constant and consistent user of data, both professionally and personally. Certainly I speak with clients and users and other divisions and units about this or that problem space; and certainly I contribute to top-down strategic direction and policy and collaboration agreements; and certainly I  have a background in researching academic solutions to the "problem" of data management in support of pragmatic and/or logistical applications thereof. But there's nothing quite as enlightening about what an agency such as DCP can do with their assets and resources than to be out building something (always with FOSS4G, mind you) and to *be in need of* a clearly-documented data API (ideally) or some other point of access. That is, I do believe I am uniquely-situated across the strata of user, tech, manager, academic, and director to join DCP and put my shoulder to the wheel toward making the agency a model of data management and application.

I probably can't express enough how much I love the work of building up data-based systems, services, and applications that improve the efficiency and efficacy of an organization. Hopefully I needn't bother, as I do think my career so far demonstrates an understanding of the challenges on multiple axes (organization, policy, technical infrastructure, dissemination, discovery, use) as well as a long-term commitment to (and successes in) solving problems in this space. This is a very rich and complex area with -- certainly here in 2018 -- almost overwhelming potential for innovation, adaptation, and progress. The next logical step for me, I believe, is to move beyond the insular, sequestered environment at Lincoln and join the team at DCP in order to start getting some real, public work done for New York City.

Sincerely,


C.C. Miller
January 2018